Hey everyone. Before we start the video I
just wanted to thank everyone who’s donated
to the Telos Pictures IndieGoGo campaign.
We’ve passed 600% of the original goal
and its all thanks to you. If you want to
support the creation of an LGBTQ production
company that will make movies for LGBTQ people,
you can join at the link in the description.
Now let’s get to the latest
slap in the face from Disney.
"We understand how important this issue is to
our LGBTQ+ employees and many others. For nearly
a century, Disney has been a unifying
force that brings people together.
We are determined that it remains a place where
everyone is treated with dignity and respect.
The biggest impact we can have in
creating a more inclusive world
is through the inspiring content we produce, the
welcoming culture we create here and the diverse
community organizations we support, including
those representing the LGBTQ+ community.”
That was the Walt Disney company's
response when asked what their position
is on Florida’s Don’t Say Gay bill.
If you haven’t been watching the news.
The Don’t Say Gay Bill is a piece of crap
education bill in Florida, the intention
of which is to outlaw all discussions surrounding
sexual orientation and gender identity in schools.
Florida House Bill 1557 was introduced in the
state House of Representatives in January,
while an identical version,
called the Senate Bill 1834,
(I assume these bills are named after the year
each political body thinks we still live in)
advanced in the state Senate. Both bills,
titled ‘Parental Rights in Education’,
ban classroom discussions about sexuality and
gender identity in quote “primary grade levels”,
but does not specify exactly what a “primary grade
level” is, let alone which age bracket it defines.
Which is common with other discriminatory bills,
that being that they do not necessarily place
limits on the scope of what the bill is meant to
do. Contrast to a bill about parking regulation,
which will be three-hundred pages long, include
every foreseeable caveat and exception to the
bill, and include a thrown-in clause about lawn
maintenance in a single cul de sac within one of
the signer’s municipal districts. Especially in
America, bills are usually incredibly specific,
because the public and law enforcement (in theory)
need to know the limits of their legal authority.
Descriminatory bills usually do not have
limits because the governing authorities
want to provide as much leeway for
further discrimination as possible.
It’s less about generating a mandate for civil
action and more about removing restrictions on
existing bigoted people, and validating
their biogtry with political authority.
The bills seek to ensure greater rights for
parents to decide what their children are
exposed to in school. An earlier bill passed
by Republicans, known as the ‘Parents’ Bill of
Rights’, was meant to give parents the right to
“direct the upbringing, education, health care,
and mental health” of their children.
Republican lawmaker Joe Harding, yeah
this asshat, who introduced the bill in the state
House of Representatives, hopes it will quote:
“reinforce the fundamental right of parents
to make decisions regarding upbringing and
control of their children.”
“Control… of their children…”
"Creating boundaries at an early age
of what is appropriate in our schools,
when we are funding our
schools, is not hate," he said.
Essentially saying that any child whose family
can’t afford a progressive private school doesn't
deserve to learn about anything other than “and
when mommy and daddy fell in love, a stork came.”
This is curious as the language of
this bill is directed at giving parents
‘more control’ over their families.
However, the mandate of the bill
is to dictate what is and is not appropriate
in public. Which, contrary to the language,
targets parents who do support their queer
children, and brands them as being unfit,
or as fostering ‘inappropreate’
social attitudes among their children.
Therefore, the public may interpret this as the
supportive parents of queer-children themselves,
being social delinquants. And that they deserve
whatever consequences may come their way.
This bill promises freedom for parents… as long
as they conform to a specific kind of freedom.
Ron DeSantis, the governor of Florida
and a favorite for the 2024 Republican
nomination for president, said that it was
“entirely inappropriate” for teachers to
be having conversations with students
about gender identity. He also said:
“Schools need to be teaching kids to read,
to write. They need to teach them science,
history. We need more civics and
understanding of the US Constitution,
what makes our country unique,
all those basic stuff.”
Yes he said “all those basic stuff”
Is our children learning? (George W Bush)
And we know Florida school books aren't exactly
prime real estate for truthful depictions of,
say, the war of Northern Aggression, now don’t we?
Anyway.
On February 25th this passed through
the Florida House of Representatives,
on its way to quickly becoming law.
President Joe Biden, or someone on his
team (more likely), quickly tweeted:
“I want every member of the LGBTQI+ community
— especially the kids who will be impacted by
this hateful bill — to know that you are loved
and accepted just as you are. I have your back,
and my Administration will continue to fight
for the protections and safety you deserve.”
In response to the bill passing, former
Disney CEO and Chairman Bob Igre wrote
“I’m with the President on this!... this bill will
put vulnerable, young LGBTQ people in jeopardy.”
Side note: it’s been theorized that Igre
intends on running for president as a
democrat in the near future so he doesn’t want
to get on the bad side of any gays right now.
And this is true to form for democrats who
use social outrage to signal that they’re
on the right side of history. Whereas if
Iger actually wanted to make a difference,
there is a lot he could do that would be more
substantial than tweeting the equivalent of
‘that goes for me, but double.’ Like…
spend some of his hundreds of millions
of dollars on supporting young
LGBTQ people he’s so worried about.
But here’s the rub. Bob Chapek, the
current CEO and Chairman of Disney said
nothing. The only thing that came out
with his name even associated with it
was that milk toast non-statement I
read at the beginning of the video.
You see, Chapek’s been busy putting his
own stamp on Disney corporate culture,
and is clearly less willing than even Igre to
advocate for, you know, human rights causes.
For example, The Hollywood Reporter… reported that
a knowledgeable source at Disney has said that
Chapek balked at the idea of weighing in on even
fighting over voting rights in Florida. Quote:
“Chapek is staunchly opposed to
bringing Disney into issues he
deems irrelevant to the company and its
businesses,” this anonymous person said.
Which is a massive problem because Disney brings a
lot, and I mean A LOT of money into Florida, so if
Disney were to threaten to pack up it’s east-coast
theme park and leave the sunshine state if certain
bills were passed, that could significantly
impact political decisions in that state.
They did that when Georgia was messing around with
these kinds of bills, since most Disney movies are
now shot in Atlanta, and the state backtracked
on its own hateful political agenda real fast.
According to a source familiar with both
Iger’s and Chapek’s leadership thought process,
Iger tended to speak out NOT only when issues
affected the company’s business interests but
when they affected its employees, now numbering
nearly 200,000. But this person says Chapek
has taken a narrower view and has been concerned
that Disney might be viewed as too liberal.
HAH!
(That might be funny if it wasn’t so
terrifying. Welcome to the tagline of 2022!)
Even when his own employees push back against
his reluctance to say that gay kids are valid,
he prefers to make these conversations
as hush hush and in-house as possible.
Disney’s chief diversity officer
sent a message to staff on March
2 referencing “deeply troubling and
heartbreaking” developments in the news,
noting that Chapek had asked “to meet with leaders
in our company’s LGBTQ+ community to discuss how
Disney can best support these important
and valued employees and cast members.”
She went on to say that the company
would schedule “Reimagine Tomorrow,”
conversation on March 22nd that will be dedicated
to “issues of concern to our LGBTQ+ colleagues,”
and announced a company-wide “Reimagine
Tomorrow Global Summit” for April 13th.
The assumption is that Chapek will take part
in these events, but that has yet to be seen.
Disney has 77,000 employees in Florida
alone, where it operates both parks and
cruise lines. Pre-COVID, Disney Parks accounted
for more than one-third of all company revenue.
In 2021, when still contending with the pandemic,
the division brought in $16.5 billion in revenue.
In 2019, its last full year pre-COVID,
it brought in $26.2 billion.
“Disney is a leader in LGBTQ
workplace equality and content-”
Content?
A leader in LGBTQ content?
Well that’s… news…
Have we been looking at the same release
schedule, Disney? Like ‘leader’ as in racing
ahead of the competition, venturing into uncharted
territory, and developing new innovations which
inspire others to keep up with you? Because
none of those things are going on these days.
The only real cinematic innovations that have come
out of Disney lately are the projection screens
that they use the Mandalorian, and letting
Chloe Zhao shoot a superhero movie outside.
Innovation!
Meanwhile, on the gay front, Netflix’s
ever-expanding library of LGBTQ-content
dwarves whatever Disney’s peddling
as their next first gay character.
You’re not even a follower, Disney, you’re
just kinda Lebnitzing your way to fame.
Newton publishes his theory of optics,
you write a very public letter to make
sure everyone knows you were doing it too.
Nick wrote that one. Now the
Lebnitz stans are gonna come for me…
Though really, is it worth mentioning
Netflix is good fair for queerfolk when
they just re-signed Dave Chapelle for more
comedy specials after he was “canceled,”
big quotes there, for saying some
horrible stuff about trans folks.
They just don’t cancel people like they used to.
But pay no attention to that, queer-consumers.
You get a whole second season
of Young Royals! Coming soon…
(Yeah we’ll talk about that
later. There are thoughts.)
Like if your words and your actions
aren’t going to say the same thing,
at least Netflix is putting a budget into
trying to convince us that they give a damn.
I mean find yourself a corporate conglomerate
that’s gonna gaslight you softly, am I right?
But Guess who’s gonna have a
rainbow logo during pride month?
The answer is everyone. Everyone will have
a rainbow logo during pride month. Because
only among the queer community can you go to such
minimal effort to get the most positive feedback.
In all this discussion about raising awareness for
gay rights, it’s like everyone stopped
listening after the ‘awareness’ part.
A whole lot of good awareness does when it comes
to laws that explicitly target us — and now
our parents. The ones who actually care about us!
Because the lawmakers are sure AWARE we exist now!
And Florida is not alone in this renewed crusade
against queer kids. Dozens of laws have popped
up across the country trying to keep any gender
or sexuality confirming language out of schools.
Including a widespread book ban that,
although took a chainsaw approach,
famously banning books like Maus from classrooms,
also took out any LGBTQ focused or
inclusive books they could find as well.
Texas is where the real ire
has been pointed recently.
Attorney General Ken Paxton issued an opinion that
likened gender-affirming care for minors to child
abuse. Days later, Governor Greg Abbott doubled
down with a letter calling on professionals,
including teachers and doctors, to report parents
who give their children gender-affirming care.
The letter added that there would be similar
reporting requirements for the general public,
and consequences for those who don't report.
Which, given that medical professionals are
— professionally — heald to confidentiality,
even in instances where someone has
been murdered, these lawmakers seem
to be asking doctors to choose between
their medical licence and fines or prison.
Where else have you been
legally required to report
people who are doing things that the
dear leader has a personal problem with?
You know what? Don’t even answer that. I’m sure
I had some specific, totalitarian, authoritarian
bureaucrat in mind. But really ‘reporting your
neighbors to authorities’ isn’t exactly rare
and is something we really should have left
in the 20th century with Joseph McCarthy.
Now, Adri Pérez, a policy and
advocacy strategist at the ACLU,
pointed out that neither the letter
nor the opinion are legally binding.
No one actually has a legal duty to report
someone receiving gender-affirming care.
"They have no legal effect, and they cannot
curtail anyone's constitutional rights," Pérez
told NPR. "The attorney general and the governor
can share their opinions, but it is just their
partisan opinion that have been created to
target transgender kids and their families."
But the message is crystal clear. Regardless
of what call to action may or may not be in
a piece of legislation, the state is projecting
the message to its citizens that descrimination
is acceptable in this instance. And that
the state will not prosecute persecution.
That, if you believe that
Americanness is qualified as
adhering to American laws, bigotry
is the ‘American’ thing to do.
Emmett Schelling, the executive director of the
Transgender Education Network of Texas said:
"The state leadership has said, 'We would
rather see dead children ... instead of happy,
loved, supported, thriving trans
kids that are alive and well."
Texas proposed more than forty bills
in 2021 alone that targeted trans and
non-binary youth in the state. As if a bunch
of queer minors are the most dangerous threat
to American national security right now. Or
ever. But especially right now especially.
In October 2021, the Texas legislature passed
a bill barring transgender girls from playing
on girls sports teams, and transgender
boys from playing on boys sports teams.
The law went into effect in January, making Texas
the 10th state to enact similar legislation.
So you can see these acts
of hatred aren’t going away.
But it’s not like there’s
been no push back to this.
Students across Florida staged school walkouts
in response to the Don’t Say Gay bill.
While politicians say LGBTQ issues are "not
age-appropriate" for the age group,
the student vehemently disagreed.
Waving rainbow picket signs and shouting
“We say gay!” in walkouts across the state.
"The language and the supporters of the bill
and the rhetoric around the bill really shows
what this bill is, and it's an attempt
to hurt queer people like me," said High
School senior Jack Petocz, who organized
the statewide protests on social media.
In response to the rally Bryan Griffin, DeSantis’
deputy press secretary, said in an email:
"All Floridians are free to exercise
their First Amendment rights
and peacefully express their
opinions about any issue.”
After the rally, Jack Petocz was called into his
principal's office and suspended "indefinitely."
On Feb. 22, writer Benjamin Siemon, whose résumé
includes several Disney credits like Ducktales,
took to Twitter to call out the studio for not
taking a stance on the Florida legislation.
“I love and have loved working for Disney, but
I am deeply saddened by their silence when it
comes to speaking out against the ‘Don’t Say Gay’
bill, especially now that an amendment suggests
teachers must disclose a student’s sexuality
even if they know that child will be harmed.”
The Republican hard turn into
banning the existence of queer kids
has actually presented challenges to giant
corporations in several states. Recently,
Texas Competes, an LGBTQ advocacy organization
representing more than 1,400 corporations in
the state — including Marriott and Dell —
condemned Governor Greg Abbott after his
anti-trans statements. (though it is of note that
Disney is not a part of the Texas Competes group.)
Scott Maxwell of The Orlando Sentinel
wrote recently that Disney donated money
to Florida State Senator Dennis Baxley, who has
actively backed anti-gay legislation for years,
including laws that would block
gay couples from adopting children,
and that they’ve also backed other politicians
who support “Don’t Say Gay” legislation,
as have Comcast, NBCUniversal, and AT&T.
Baxley also once compared kids who
live with same-sex parents to kids
raised by alcoholics and abusers and later said,
“I’m not phobic, but I simply
can’t affirm homosexuality.”
Because although these Republican state
senators might be putting children,
Disney’s main demographic, in danger, they
also tend to keep corporate tax rates low.
And which one weighs on the conscience
of Disney investors more? The potential
trauma and death of queer children? Or
the idea of their stock price dropping?
I realize a lot of people have rose-tinted
nostalgia goggles when it comes to disney,
and I myself enjoy a lot of the content, but as
a corporation, their primary priority is their
stockholders. Not their audience, not
their employees, not their legacy. And
the stockholders don’t seem to have a problem with
this corporation (that produces children's media)
supporting politicians who support legislation
that targets and discriminates against children.
I can say that all we have to do is target
Disney’s profits in response to this to drive
down revenue which would negatively impact
dividends… the shareholders would then hold
an emergency meeting and the board of directors
would put pressure on Chapek to do… something?
But wouldn’t it just be nice if people with
money actually cared about anything else?
Florida Democratic State Representative Anna
Eskamani said that companies like
Walt Disney’s priorities are clear:
“The business lobby seems more
focused on securing tax breaks…than
living up to their so-called
corporate values of inclusivity.”
And all the while Disney stays quiet.
Well… all except Abigail Disney. Writing:
“It’s pretty fundamental. As Einstein said,
you can’t stand still on a moving train.
When laws are being passed that are this
hateful and dripping with prejudice,
there is no neutrality. Not saying anything
is saying a lot. ⁦@WaltDisneyCo get a spine”
Abigail Disney also called her family legacy
into question after it was revealed that the
Walt Disney Company donated to the representatives
who supported the “Don’t Say Gay” bill. Stating:
“I could not be more unhappy
with their political activities,
both in terms of whom they fund and how
they lobby. I would strongly support a
law to require all corporations to reveal
ALL of their funding and lobbying moves.”
It’s worth noting that Walt Disney World
is located near Orlando, Florida, and the
Disney parks recently issued a fifth “key” called
“Inclusion” to its Cast Member Training Worldwide.
Empty platitudes from a soulless corporation.
But they said they won’t be releasing any
movies in Russia for the foreseeable future.
So at least we know that war can bring them
to their senses. Though they were pretty okay
with Russia arresting and disappearing
queer folk for the last twenty years.
The nihilist in me just kinda
wants to shrug and say ‘well…
can you really expect anything
better from a soulless corporation?’
In fact the nihilist in me becomes more and more
significant the more this happens. Because every
step we take to that whole… be the change you
want to see in the world — ends up being a door
in the face. It’s easier to keep your head down
and move along. Scrape by however you can manage.
But for some people, being able to
‘scrape by’ is a best-case scenario.
Let’s say you have a relatively open-minded
population. Or at least, a population for
whom the majority are ambivalent,
but who exist in a cultural zeitgeist
where the ethical code is geared
towards morality and community-building.
Let’s also say that there is a fraction
of the national political body who,
for the sake of perpetuating their actual agenda,
target specific groups to destabilize,
distract, and disenfranchise.
If this moral population is able
to make ends meet comfortably,
they will naturally demonstrate their
dissatisfaction with the discriminatory practices.
However, take this same population, and
over-work it to the point of chronic burnout.
This population now exists in a situation where
it is nearly impossible for large groups to make
a living without working multiple jobs,
or working too much at one job. They are
crushed under a successful workplace propaganda
effort that workers rights are detrimental to a
worker’s income, and where the only valid work
ethic is to work as much as humanly possible.
Between work, family, and kids, are they going to
have the time or energy to actively
participate in political discourse?
Looking south from over the border, I’m honestly
surprised — and impressed — that as many people in
Florida and Texas have showed up to stand
against these bigoted laws as they have.
Right-wing lawmakers have an invested
interest in limiting the number of
people who benefit from widespread social
rights. The less groups of people who are
politically ‘valid’ — the easier it is to develop
consistent propaganda to manipulate these people.
And also generating a horde of
exploitable labor from the underclass.
That last part is key. Because, a fun fact that
lives in my head rent-free is that, at its peak,
roughly 70% of the Roman Empire’s population…
were not Roman citizens. They were slaves.
Slaves, and freed slaves,
throughout the empire’s domination,
made up the bulk of what we now
consider to be ‘the roman people.’
That other 30% — and an even smaller
fraction was actually the socially
superior ‘Patrician’ class — required a legion
of slavery in order for society to function.
So if we’re still sitting around
wondering why we can’t all just get along,
it’s because a collection of social superiors
NEED an underclass in order for their lives to
function. Costs of labor cut into profits. And
if slavery is ‘illegal’ — except for instances
of mass-incerceration — the next best thing is to
make it as cheap as possible to exploit someone.
And someone is easier to exploit if the
government is consistently de-valuing
their identity and their selves.
What right do you have to ask for
a living wage if the government itself has
deemed you as not being suitable to exist?
Meanwhile, non-queer-people can’t
seem to understand WHY suicide is
still highest per-capita among queer
youth, specifically queer trans youth.
You know what they need? MORE AWARENESS.
That’s all they need. More awareness.
Why are there all these suicides? Haven’t all of
these depressed queer kids seen
the rainbow logos every June?
Haven’t they seen all the gays
Disney’s been putting in movies?
Like that one in Cruella, or Beauty
and the Beast, or Jungle Cruise.
I mean they never said they were
gay in the movie but still. OH,
and that guy from the Eternals. I didn’t go
see it but I’m sure these LBGTABC kids did.
Don’t they know they’re being seen? I’m
doing MY part! I watch Queer-Eye on Netflix!
The objective of these laws is not to erase
queer people. These lawmakers aren’t dumb—
Well… most of them…
The corperate moguls funneling money
into these lawmakers aren’t dumb.
They know queer people have this weird
habbit of repopulating themselves because,
i don’t know, deviations from cis-hetero
identity expressions are somehow doccumented
throughout all of biology. These
laws are not to erase queer people,
it’s to make our lives as difficult as
humanly possible so that the upper-echelons
of our society have a chronically refreshed
underclass of people that they can exploit.
And nobody’s more in need of an exploitable
labor pool like a corporation with a theme park.
Even though lawmakers and CEOs and billionaires
may not really have a problem with queer people,
in order to have an easily available
desperate underclass who will
be (presumably) grateful to
work whatever job they’re given,
they require the public at large to put as
much social pressure on this group as possible.
And when it comes to corporations
and their apparent support of rights,
their silence is in their best interest. Because
it is them who benefit from the underclasses.
The more people are persecuted, and
the more severe that persecution,
the less they have to actually do to turn
around and trumpet how progressive they are.
They give us less, they pay us
less, and we’re grateful because
‘LGBTQIA-Friendly cooperation to the rescue!’ All
the while indirectly supporting our persecution
because ‘tax breaks’ — or worse, being entirely
indifferent to our suffering and trying to
turn around and make a buck off us anyway.
We’re not a community to them, we’re a
sponge that they can squeeze anything out of.
Cheap labor, grateful for the opportunity to work
in a place where our coworkers won’t spit on us?
They got that.
An audience so starved for
any meaningful representation
that the slightest nod in our
direction sends us into euphoric fits?
They got that.
Without competition to see who can make
the best queer content, we’re sitting
at the wrong end of half a dozen monopolies
of hetero-hegimonistic CEOs and billionares
who think they have the right to decide what
we want. Because they’ve been systematically
eliminating — not only our options
— but our very rights and dignities.
They’ve got this lie going where they
want us to think that we need them.
That we have no other option but to support
them because who else are we going to support.
Big companies like Disney are like Buffalo Bill
from the Silence of the Lambs. Unable to actually
change or transition, but more than willing to
wear the skin of any minority that suits them.
So in spite of the fact that these ‘Don’t
Say Gay’ bills may end up being toothless or,
struck down by higher courts, and that there
may be no way to actually enforce them,
they are projecting to the public at large
that their anti-trans and anti-gay laws are not
bigotry — they are the right way to be an
American. That people who feel that ‘cis’
is a slur against non-trans people have the
backing of, at least, the state government.
These are laws to embolden people who were already
bigoted, or to coerce people who were indifferent.
Or maybe who knows? There’s gonna be an anti-queer
gestapo with state funding turning up soon.
This is America. Who knows anymore?
I’m tired. I’m really tired.
I’m tired of begging these
shit-heads for representation.
And tired of fighting with these other
assholes to please look at us as people.
It would be very easy for Disney to come out
and say “We oppose what the state legislature
is proposing in Florida and we may not renew
our certain land leases within the state”.
It’s an empty threat, because Disney would never
abandon Walt Disney World in Orlando, but that’s
77,000 people who would lose their jobs at Disney
if the state goes through with these draconian
hateful laws. That’s 77,000 people who would be
activated to stop these laws from being passed.
Just say the words Disney. I’m not asking
for gay superheroes this time. We got one,
and he was awesome. I’m not asking for a
gay prince charming. I’m not asking for
a trans disney princess. I’m asking
you to say “No.” when these vicious
politicians say “You can’t say gay,
but you sure as hell can say hate.”
You can say “no”. You can say “We say
gay” like these kids did. They have
more balls than your billion dollar
corporation and your heartless CEO.
Tell the state you’ll pull
your business out of there.
Do something. For Christ sake, with everything
going on in the world right now you have the
power to make SOME peoples lives a little bit
easier. Or, Jesus, at least not harder than they
already are. Queer kids, even with the most loving
families, still live in fear in the best of times.
So show them that you’ve got their backs. That you
actually do care about families. That the money
from those goddamn rainbow mickey ears we all buy
actually goes to doing something to help instead
of just feeding donations to hateful politicians
who will give you your goddamn tax breaks.
Do something.